---
layout: default
permalink: init.html
---

# Rendering of the stage in the canvas
In this chapter, we will see how Canvace displays a game stage into a canvas.
Initially, the stage information exported by the development environment needs to be loaded into Canvace. This is done asynchronously in two separate steps.

First, the JSON file is loaded using Ajax (line 1). The anonymous function, called when the loading has completed, gets the whole data as an object. Then,
the "media" directory - containing all the pictures used for the game - is loaded by instantiating a Canvace.Loader object and calling the loadAssets method.
This process may require some time; hence, a progress callback "progress" is passed: it updates the status of a progress bar.

    Canvace.Ajax.getJSON("Stage1.json", function(data) {
        var loader = new Canvace.Loader("media", progress, function() {
        var canvas = document.getElementById("tutorial");
        var stage = new Canvace.Stage(data, canvas);
        var renderLoop = new Canvace.RenderLoop(stage, null, loader, animator, eventLoop.loop);
			
        renderLoop.run();
        }, error);
        
        loader.loadAssets(data);
    });

Now that all the game information have been stored inside Canvace, it's time to render them into the canvas. Line 3 retrieves the canvas object from the DOM.
Line 4 associates a Canvace.Stage object with the canvas and the game data. This class is useful to retrieve all the game components for this stage.
At last, the render loop is initialized: here we can control the periodical rendering of the stage inside the canvas. The functions animator and eventLoop.loop
will be described later: for now, it's sufficient to know they define what happens to the scene in-between two renderings.

At line 7, the run() method starts the rendering, and the stage is finally displayed.

SCREEN

----------------------------